[Music]
hi what's up guys
today i'll show you a science fiction
film the martian
spoiler ahead watch out and take care
humans efforts to explore outer space
never come to a stop in a future world
after a long journey in the spaceship in
the year 2035
astronauts have finally reached the
orbit of mars a red-colored planet which
is deemed the most habitable place for
the mankind
after their landing on its surface with
a space shuttle they can't wait any
longer to begin their exploration as
scheduled
on the martian solar day 18 of their
expedition while astronauts are
collecting martian soil samples outside
their habitat
they are caught up in a severe sand
storm with the alarm triggered
the captain orders his men to retreat to
the habitat
all of a sudden the sandstorm sweeps
over and covers up the whole sky
on their way back the astronaut one gets
struck by debris
and lost in the storm due to the air
pressure leaking from a broken spacesuit
what's worse the shuttle is tilted over
by the storm
and about to collapse to avoid any
further damage
the captain makes his decision to
evacuate immediately from the goddamn
place
they launch the shuttle and escape from
the danger
the nasa later releases the news of the
failed mission on mars at a press
conference
presuming watney is dead watney however
survives the dust storm and later
awakens badly injured
the low oxygen warning keeps beeping due
to his broken spacesuit
he rushes back to the habitat to take
some medical care of his wounds
as he recovers he begins to film his
daily life alone in the planet
meanwhile he has to face a real and
emerging challenge
that even with minimum daily consumption
the food left in the storage can only
support him for another 400 days at the
most
which frustrates him greatly for he
knows that the next mission by man to
mars
is scheduled four years later and he
can't take that long due to the food
shortage
whitney as the mission's botanist
fortunately figures out a way to solve
such an issue by planting potatoes there
he improvises a big garden inside the
habitat
utilizing the martian soil fertilized
with the cruise bio waste
and manufactures water for the plant by
combusting the leftover hydrogen fuel
with the oxygen
after months of hard work and tests on
the 54th martian solar day
winding happens to see the potato seeds
planted in the soil
have sprouted and come in the leaf on
earth
nasa holds a funeral however for the
presumably dead water
not knowing what has actually happened
to watney until one day
a satellite planner notices moved
equipment from the satellite images of
their habitat on mars
and realizes that watney is still alive
but they can't get in touch with him due
to the communication failure on that
planet
on the 79th martian solar day with many
efforts invested
watney harvests the potatoes plants for
the first time
trying to rebuild the broken
communication system on mars
he takes the rover out to search the
whole area for any valuable materials
he later retrieves a probe device in the
nearby area which was launched from
earth
but fell silent on mars many years ago
with its camera and motor found in good
condition
whitney then rebuilds a non-sound
communication system
and successfully regains his contact
with people on earth
who are working hard reading watney's
real intentions through his gestures
what he can hold his excitement when
seeing people on earth again
after his months lock down on that
deserted planet
but later turns to be upset about nasa
when learning that they have not made
the public known that he's still alive
but one he feels not so desperate
anymore after the first successful
contact though
nasa plans to build and launch another
spaceship for his rescue
but they have to rush the project in
order to save him out from the food
shortage
however the situation gets worsened by a
sudden big explosion in the habitat
taking place due to the air pressure
leakage from the broken cabin door
which places the greenhouse plants a raw
and freezing environment
and hence destroys all the potato plants
seeing his efforts turned totally in
vain rodney is overwhelmed and desperate
as a result with no time left nasa has
to speed up its rescue plan
and launches the spaceship much earlier
than scheduled without enough safety
tests
on the 185th martian solar day with
everything seemingly ready
nasa launches the spaceship and the
rocket goes fine initially
until they're all shocked by the shaking
rocket which deflects its original orbit
and moments later ends up exploding into
pieces
people are depressed by the explosion
because they all know what it truly
means for the poor watney on mars
who's also stressed out by that without
any hope for survival
he even drafts his wills beforehand
while scratching their heads for any
backup plan nasa receives good news from
the china national space administration
who would offer to help nasa with their
booster rocket used to propel the
returning spaceship back into the mars
orbit
where it can dock with the shuttle taken
off from the mars
the crew on the returning spaceship are
all cheered up by the alternative
although they know this would put their
mission and life at risk
the chinese launched their booster into
space and as expected dock successfully
with the spaceship
which subsequently heads back to the
mars orbit
after a long time waiting anxiously one
he finally receives from nasa the latest
instructions
telling him to reach the landing site
located three thousand two hundred kilos
away
one ni soon begins his three mosque
journey with a rover
across the desert all the way to the
destination before taking the space
shuttle up to the orbit
unexpectedly on the other side due to
fuel shortage
the returning spaceship will be unable
to reach its scheduled orbit
which will make the docking impossible
without better choice
watney has to figure out a way to resist
the martian gravity
and propel himself closer to the
returning spaceship in the deep space
to make that happen wadney has to unload
most of the shuttle's heavy cargos
trying to reduce its weight for more
speed
on the 561st martian solar day
the returning spaceship has reached as
far as it can
and awaits the docking in outer space
after already wadney is about to take
the shuttle off to the martian orbit
while people on earth are all waiting
anxiously before the tv
for their heroes return home the crew in
the spaceship are busy coordinating with
watney
giving him the technical instructions
after a successful ignition the shuttle
soars into the sky
with a long flaming tail left behind
watney however suffers a blackout from
the propelling force
generated by the engine moments later
the shuttle separates from the booster
and it is navigated automatically
towards the outer space
watney wakes up and responds to the
instructions
everybody cheers up for the first small
step he's made
but they soon discover a technical
challenge that the high speed would not
allow
a safe docking the captain chooses to
explode its front cabinets
which generates enough counter force to
lower down the spaceship speed
but it turns out that the spaceship and
the shuttle are not on the same surface
level
as allowed for docking in order to reach
watney in the space
the captain decides to wander into space
with the safety belt attached
the belt however seems too short for the
reach
without any choice what need pieces his
pressure suit
and with the counter force generated by
the escaping air
he's propelled close enough to the
captain but fails to reach him though
due to the high speed
with another attempt he fetches the belt
successfully
watney and the crew are reunited after
his 560 solar days alone on mars
months later after they're heading back
the spaceship finally reaches the
beautiful blue earth
and what they who's well known for his
breathtaking experience on mars
goes back to his normal life and becomes
a survival instructor
sharing his life experience and wisdom
to the young astronaut candidates
this is daniel cc movie channel bye